---
title: "[ROS Day3] ROS 처리 지연 문제"
categories: dev_ROS
tag: [ROS]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label : 목차


date: 2022-03-02 00:00:03
last_modified_at: 2022-03-02
---
<br>
<br>

# 1. ROS 처리 지연 문제
## 1. 문제점
* 도착하는 데이터를 미처 처리하지 못 함 → 버리는 데이터 발생

```bash
~$ rosrun msg_send receiver_overflow.py
[INFO] [1646215135.730437]: callback is being processed
75
[INFO] [1646215138.743949]: callback is being processed
3049
[INFO] [1646215141.752676]: callback is being processed
6049
[INFO] [1646215144.765061]: callback is being processed
9093
[INFO] [1646215147.778193]: callback is being processed
```


## 2. 원인
* Receiver에게 과도한 작업 요구 또는 sleep의 주기를 늘림 & queue_size가 작음

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python

import rospy
from std_msgs.msg import Int32

rospy.init_node("Receiver",anonymous=True)

def callback(msg):
    rospy.loginfo("callback is being processed")
    rospy.sleep(3)
    print(msg.data)

sub = rospy.Subscriber("my_topic",Int32,callback,queue_size=1)
rospy.spin()
```

## 3. 해결
* queue_size ↑ → 버리는 데이터 ↓
    - queue_size를 지정하지 않는 것이 최대 크기로 늘리는 의미인 듯

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python

import rospy
from std_msgs.msg import Int32

rospy.init_node("Receiver",anonymous=True)

def callback(msg):
    rospy.loginfo("callback is being processed")
    rospy.sleep(3)
    print(msg.data)

sub = rospy.Subscriber("my_topic",Int32,callback)
rospy.spin()

```

## 4. 결과
```bash
~$ rosrun msg_send receiver_overflow.py
[INFO] [1646215622.183931]: callback is being processed
74
[INFO] [1646215625.199085]: callback is being processed
75
[INFO] [1646215628.203502]: callback is being processed
76
[INFO] [1646215631.210327]: callback is being processed
77
[INFO] [1646215634.214407]: callback is being processed
```

## 5. queue_size
0. Choosing a good queue_size<br>
    It is hard to provide a rule of thumb for what queue size is best for your application, as it depends on many variables of your system. Still, for beginners who do not care much about message passing, here we provide some guidelines.

    If you're just sending one message at a fixed rate it is fine to use a queue size as small as the frequency of the publishing.

    If you are sending multiple messages in a burst you should make sure that the queue size is big enough to contain all those messages. Otherwise it is likely to lose messages.

    Generally speaking using a bigger queue_size will only use more memory when you are actually behind with the processing - so it is recommended to pick a value which is bigger than it needs to be rather than a too small value.

    But if your queue is much larger than it needs to be that will queue up a lot of messages if a subscriber is lagging behind. This might lead to messages arriving with large latency since all messages will be delivered in FIFO order to the subscriber once it catches up.

1. queue_size Omitted<br>
    If the keyword argument is omitted, None is passed or for Groovy and older ROS distributions the publishing is handled synchronously. As of Indigo not passing the keyword argument queue_size will result in a warning being printed to the console.

2. queue_size None<br>
    Not recommended. Publishing is handled synchronously which means that one blocking subscriber will block all publishing. As of Indigo passing None will result in a warning being printed to the console.

3. queue_size Zero<br>
    While a value of 0 means an infinite queue, this can be dangerous since the memory usage can grow infinitely and is therefore not recommended.

4. queue_size One, Two, Three<br>
    If your system is not overloaded you could argue that a queued message should be picked up by the dispatcher thread within a tenth of a second. So a queue size of 1 / 2 / 3 would be absolutely fine when using 10 Hz.

    that only cares about the latest measurement. e.g. never send older measurements if a newer one exists.

5. queue_size Ten or More<br>
    An example of when to use a large queue size, such as 10 or greater, is user interface messages (e.g. digital_io, a push button status) that would benefit from a larger queue_size to prevent missing a change in value. Another example is when you want to record all published values including the ones which would be dropped when publishing with a high rate / small queue size.